URL: https://www.altalt.ca/basic-bearing-press
TITLE: Basic Bearing Press — Alt Alt Bike Products
Basic Bearing Press Kit
Formerly Suspension Bearing Press, but now with more Pilots, revised Drifts, O-Rings and available in aluminum.
This kit is designed to remove and install a single bearing out of a frame piece. This is common in suspension. 
Available in Acetal or Aluminum.
View fullsize
BUY ACETAL >>>
View fullsize
BUY ALUMINUM >>>
Features:
Removes and installs bearings straight, to not damage your frame or the bearing. 
Installs bearings by applying force to the outer bearing ring which ensures that you don’t damage the bearing. 
Works with a controllable screwing motion. No hammering or yanking. 
Installs bearings in tight spaces thanks to numerous drift size options.
Made out of acetal which is strong and gentle on your frame. 
The parts are designed to be less expensive to manufacture and everything else is bare bones to save you money.
Supplied as a kit to work on many common metric bearing sizes.
The bearing press fits these sized bearings:
1) Bearing Inner Diameter (mm)  
    8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20 & 25
2) Bearing Outer Diameter (mm) 
    16, 19, 21, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 35, 37
Frame Removal Requirements
Follow these requirements to keep the tool straight on the bearing. Torquing a crooked tool will damage the tool and possibly the bearing and frame. 
View fullsize
To remove a bearing, the front side of  the FRAME must be flat, perpendicular to bearing seat and fully support the SLEEVE. The SLEEVE wall is 2.5mm thick.
View fullsize
Need access to the back side of the bearing to be able to position the tool.
…and will REMOVE the bearings in these frame configurations. 
View fullsize
Single bearing removal.
View fullsize
Remove these both at once, but you might have to release the bearing from the SLEEVE and STEP after the first bearing.
Frame Install Requirements
Follow these requirements to keep the tool straight on the bearing. Torquing a crooked tool will damage the tool and possibly the bearing and frame. 
View fullsize
To install a bearing, the DRIFT must be able to press against the outer bearing ring without interference. This tool will NOT install a bearing where an extended inner ring interferes with installation. 
View fullsize
To install a bearing, the back side of the FRAME must be flat,  perpendicular to bearing seat, and must fully support the DRIFT by a minimum 3mm.
…and will INSTALL the bearings in these frame configurations.
View fullsize
Single bearing install.
View fullsize
Install these one at a time from either side.
View fullsize
Install these one at a time.
The Tool
View fullsize
I created this kit as a bare bones approach for a tool that needs to do a safe job of removing and installing suspension bearings. The resulting design is made up of simple to manufacture parts that come together to get the job done without harming your bike or the bearings you’re installing.
Definitions:
Stud and nuts – Simple zinc plated steel parts that can be operated by a 12 & 13mm wrench. 
Pilot – These parts fit inside the bearing ID. They center the bearing onto the screw.  
Drift RE – These parts serve three purposes.
During removal, drifts fit against the bearing inner ring pushing out the bearing. 
During install, drifts fit against the bearing outer ring pushing the bearing outer ring into the seat. 
During install, drifts fit against the back of the frame to counteract the force of pushing in the bearing.
Step – This is a universal part which centers the sleeves. 
Sleeve – During removal, these parts fit between the frame and the step. They press against the frame and allow room for the bearing to come out of the seat. 
O-Rings - Used to hold pilots in place. 
Pilots, drifts, sleeves and the step are all made out of aluminum or acetal.
Acetal
Polyoxymethylene (POM), a.k.a. acetal, is an engineering thermoplastic that has high stiffness, excellent dimensional stability and the strength to remove suspension bearings. Because it’s thermoplastic, it won’t scratch your bike. 
Acetal is not as strong as some other tool materials, so this tool needs to be fully supported by the frame around the bearing. 
Acetal is also chemically resistant to everything except very strong acids and bases so it’s perfect for exposure to grease and cleaner.  
How To - ALT/ALT Mountain Bike Suspension Bearing Press Kit
How to use the ALT/ALT quality, bare-bones, inexpensive, suspension bearing press (kit). Designed for home mechanics who want an inexpensive tool to safely replace suspension pivot bearings. Also, there is some information about bearings and why DIY isn’t so simple.
Make sure to consider the Stud Stop. It makes using the tool so sweet. 
This stop slides over the threads when it is tilted making it really easy to position when using the Bearing Press tool.
BUY >>>
HOW-TO USE PRESS TOOL >>>
