URL: https://www.altalt.ca/hsbp
TITLE: Hub Suspension Press — Alt Alt Bike Products
Hub & Suspension Bearing Press Kit
 HSBP kits. Available in acetal or aluminum.
View fullsize
View fullsize
This kit has more pieces than the Basic Bearing Press Kit to HELP remove and install bearings in hubs and freehubs (as well as suspension), but be aware that you will need extra pieces when dealing with the following situations:
Over Axle Hubs; You will need Over Axle Drifts to install the 1st bearing (sometimes, based on your manufacturer’s instructions) and the 2nd bearing (always). Over Axle Drifts are sold as single sizes or as a pack containing all sizes.
BSB (Bearing/Spacer/Bearing) Configurations; You will need either the ALT Drift or the ALT Extractor to remove the first bearing in the BSB. 
ALT Drift. This specialized drift works with the leveraging pieces of the system to remove the 1st bearing in a BSB configuration. The ALT Drift works if the bearing spacer can move off to the side a minimum 1mm and the bearing must have inner diameters of 15, 17, 18, 20 or 25mm. 
ALT Extractor. Like the ALT Drift, it removes the 1st bearing in a BSB configuration but does not need the bearing spacer to move off to the side and it works on two additional sizes. 10, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20 or 25mm. 
Pre-loaded BSB; You may need a second Drift to install both 1st and/or 2nd bearings as defined by your manufacturer. One to press the bearing and the other to leverage. Manufacturers often use numerous bearings with the same outer diameter in their hub designs, so this means that the second Drift you would need, would be of the same size as the one in this kit. If the bearings are different outer diameters, you may get away with just the drifts in this kit. 
NOTE: The handle is not included in this kit as it isn’t necessary, but it is pretty sweet.
HSBP Features:
Designed to be versatile. Many different tool parts can be used together to work on all sorts of hub, freehub and suspension pivot designs.
Utilizes numerous kinds of tool centering parts which will ensure straight bearing removal and install, so that you do not damage your parts, frame or the bearings.  
Works with a controllable screwing motion. No hammering or yanking. 
Removes the inner axle in a hub with a screwing motion instead of hammering. 
Installs bearings in tight spaces thanks to numerous drift size options.
Made out of acetal which is strong and gentle on your frame. 
Includes a Stud Stop for quick use of the tool. This turns out to be essential! 
The kit also has a second nut (different wrench flat than the first nut) in case a little more leverage is required than the Stud Stop can provide. 
The parts are designed to be less expensive to manufacture and everything else is bare bones to save you money.
Comes on a foam stand to keep all the parts organized. Some assembly required.
The lid of the box comes completely off “to get the &^%# out of the way”.
 Sizes:
The HSBP-1 press fits these sized bearings:
Bearing Inner Diameter (mm): 
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20 & 25
Bearing Outer Diameter (mm): 
16, 19, 21, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 35 & 37
Hub & Suspension Kit Pieces
View fullsize
Stud Stop – This simple threaded tool slides over the threads when it is tilted, but then engages the Stud when the rest of the tool holds it square to the Stud. 
Real convenient for quickly setting a stop for the tool to press against.
Do not turn the Stud Stop to tighten the tool. Turn the Nut or Handle instead. 
Hold the Stud Stop square on the tool with something larger than 20mm dia. 
Stop OAL – This tool has two main uses:
This part leverages against the drive side hub with clearance for the long drive side of a hub axle. 
It is also designed to leverage against the outboard side of XD/XDR freehubs for bearing removal.
Stop CTR – This Stop centers the tool on the leverage end in an open bore. Good for install and some cases removal.
Sleeve 6- This part can leverage against the 6 Bolt disc side of a hub. If you don’t remove the disc, it can even be used against the bolt heads.
Sleeve Long– This Sleeve has two main uses:
It can be used to leverage the removal of a 35mm OD bearing.
It can center AND leverage the tool on a center lock disc brake mount. Disc must be removed. 
Sleeves – During removal, these parts fit between the bike part and the step as a leverage device. They press against the frame and supply clearance room for the bearing to come out of the seat. 
Step – This is a universal part which centers the sleeves. 
O-rings – Use O-rings to keep Pilots in place.
Drift RE – These parts serve three purposes:
During removal, Drifts fit against the bearing inner ring pushing out the bearing. 
During install, Drifts fit against the bearing outer ring pushing the bearing outer ring into the seat. 
During install, use drifts to leverage against the bike parts if there is enough bearing and tool clearance.
Nuts – two zinc plated steel flange nuts that can be operated by a 12 & 13mm wrench. 
Stud – A simple stainless steel 8mm threaded rod. 
Pilots – These parts fit inside the bearing ID and center the tool on the bearing.  
Two sets of Pilots are supplied in short and long versions to help with centering and/or clearance.
The long Pilots can also be used as spacers if needed. DO NOT use the 10, 11 & 12mm pilots for this. 
Tube Spacer – just an extender kind of part to help reach inside spaces like a hub. 
HSBP-1X Expansion Pieces
For those who already purchased the Suspension Bearing Press.
View fullsize
This expansion kit includes all the parts to expand the previously sold Suspension Bearing Press to the full blown HSBP-1, EXCEPT FOR THE STUD STOP. Some customers already have the Stud Stop.  
BUY >>>
