URL: https://www.altalt.ca/system-explained
TITLE: System Explained — Alt Alt Bike Products
System Explained
The Hub & Suspension Bearing Press System is a modular SYSTEM of pieces that work together to controllably REMOVE and INSTALL many different hub, freehub and suspension cartridge bearings.
This SYSTEM is well suited to small shops and home mechanics who want to swap hub, freehub and suspension bearings. 
View fullsize
The Pieces >>> page explains every piece in the system.
Benefits of a Modular System
It is not uncommon for a modern mountain bike to use between 5-10 different size bearings between it’s hub, freehub and suspension components (…and more if you have other bikes). 
This is the reason I designed this bearing press system to be modular. Modular pieces can be arranged in more combinations than the same number of specialized pieces. 
FOR EXAMPLE - Pilots fit inside the bearing inner diameters (ID) and Drift RE correspond to the bearing outer diameter (OD). If you have 3 different size Pilots and 3 different size Drift RE, you can fit 9 different bearing sizes. 
View fullsize
This means you will need less pieces of ALT/ALT system for the same functionality as a specialized system. Less pieces means less cost …and if you run into a new bearing size, hopefully you have pieces to work. 
FYI, if you only need to replace one bearing then you will need more pieces than a specialized system, but luckily, my pieces are less expensive. 
How it works
The system works on the principal of 
     Press, Leverage, Center and Clearance (PLCC). 
When using the system, choose pieces to PRESS the bearing in or out of it’s seat by LEVERAGING against the opposite side of the bike component. When you tighten the tool, the two pieces come towards each other pressing in/out the bearing.
CENTER the tool on the bearing inner diameter and possibly the bike component (for hubs or across seat posts) to keep the bearing removal/install nice and straight. 
Remember that the bearing will move, and you will need to plan some CLEARANCE space for the moving bearing, pieces and components. 
IMPORTANT: A bearing press ALWAYS needs a flat, perpendicular surface to leverage the tool against.
Pieces in the system are designed to perform these functions. Some pieces perform more than one function.
View fullsize
What Bearing Arrangements?
This SYSTEM can remove AND install the following bearing arrangements. 
The term BSB means Bearing/Spacer/Bearing
Note: The diagrams have all bike parts labeled “Part” because the “Part” is generic. What’s really important is:
How many bearings?
Which side do the bearings get installed from?
Are there spacers or axles involved that interfere with removal or install?
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
Extended Ring & Pre-loaded Bearings
My Drifts are designed with a flat side and a relief side to accommodate extended inner ring bearings. 
Flat Side:
PRESS both bearing rings at the same time.
PRESS only the bearing inner ring (for removal choose a smaller Drift than the bearing outer diameter).
Relief Side:
Designed to PRESS only the bearing outer ring by supplying up to 3mm clearance for bearing inner rings or other bike parts that need clearance (pre-loaded hubs).
Use as a LEVERAGE piece to supply 3mm extra CLEARANCE for bearings, the tool etc. when they move during the pressing process.  
View fullsize
View fullsize
Bearing Sizes
Generally, the system works on bearings with the following sizes:
Bearing Inner Diameter (I.D.) in mm: 
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20 & 25
Bearing Outer Diameter (O.D.) in mm: 
16, 19, 21, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 35 & 37
Bearing width:
5 thru 13mm
Note: Some pieces like the ALT Drift and ALT Extractors have limited sizes.
Aluminum & Acetal System Pieces
I make many of the system pieces in both acetal and aluminum. Both materials have their strengths.
Aluminum: Great strength and durability. 
Choose aluminum pieces if you need to leverage against small surfaces or if the tool is going to see constant use, like in a shop. ALSO, very corroded bearings, wide bearings or double stacked bearings may need the extra strength of aluminum pieces.
Acetal: Lower cost and softer. 
Choose acetal pieces if the system is going to see a few uses a year. 
Because acetal is softer, it is great to use as leveraging pieces against delicate carbon bike parts and frames. For this same reason, acetal Sleeves are not suitable to use when the leverage surface is very thin or curved. 
ALSO, you can easily shape acetal Sleeves or Drifts for special applications like leveraging against slightly curved surfaces. This is dependant on your skill, so think before you cut.
Sold as Pieces, Packs and Kits
Pieces
Get individual pieces if you only need to swap a couple of bearings. 
Individual piece sales are also useful as a supplement to one of my other kits. Like if you need a second drift of the same size, or if you need a sleeve of another material. 
PIECE PAGE >>>
View fullsize
Packs
Packs consist of multiple sizes of the same piece. 
Packs are priced lower than purchasing all of the pieces individually. 
They are useful if you are a shop or enthusiast where you will need lots of sizes. 
PACK PAGE >>>
View fullsize
Kits
Kits are made up of many different sizes of numerous parts and are geared towards certain jobs. 
Kits are priced lower than purchasing all of the pieces individually. 
SHOP PRESS KIT >>>
HUB AND SUSPENSION >>>
BASIC BEARING PRESS >>>
View fullsize
Instructional Diagrams
To understand the capabilities of the system, PLEASE click the link to check out the instructional diagrams page. 
Instructional diagrams show many the bearing arrangements and how to use the tool. More diagrams to come.
INSTRUCTIONAL DIAGRAMS >>>
View fullsize
How To: 
IMPORTANT: This system can be used in so many ways that use of this tool should be approached from a fundamentals perspective. It is important to understand what situations it can be used on and how to configure the right tool parts to achieve your goal.
HOW-TO >>>
System Explanation Video
This video shows the old design of the Drifts, but otherwise is still relevant. 
